[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna get into
something a little complicated right now.
It's called the box model.
That's kind of like how CSS is based on.
It's like boxes that kind
of flow next to each other.
Also called like document flow or
something like that.
So there are a lot of CSS properties
that specifically affect boxes.
The most obvious of that is going
to be width and height, right.
So if I tell something
you're only 300 pixels wide,
it's gonna make itself 300 pixels.
And if I have text in there, the text
is going to flow inside of it, right,
it's gonna flow to that constraint,
like you're text is not gonna try and
extend outside of it,
it's gonna stay within its parent's
constraints.
>> Brian Holt: It's kinda weird to
explain, but I think it kinda makes
sense once you start actually doing it.
So border's one of those, you're telling
it to put a border please around my box.
So all those are valid borders,
one pixel solid black,
three pixels dashed gray,
five pixels dotted, and
then like a hex number, right.
>> Speaker 2: Does the border go on
the outside of the box?
Or does it flow into the box?
>> Brian Holt: So
that's a really interesting question.
Let me see if my next slide is that.
Yeah, we'll talk about
that in just one second.
That hex right there's purple,
in case you're wondering.
Background color, you're saying,
I have this box, I want the inside of
my box to be this particular color.
Background image.
So say, I like to make
an annoying tiled background or
something like that, then you can
use background image for that.
So, let's talk about widths, heights,
borders everything like that.
It's complicated right, so
just so you know, if this doesn't
initially make sense work on it.
>> Speaker 3: Will border box be
covered?
>> Brian Holt: I'll mention it right now.
Yeah we'll talk a little bit about it.
Sure.
Let's talk.
So this is the box model.
So first thing you have is height and
width in the interior there, right?
Don't worry about background color.
The background color will just only
cover what's inside of there, right?
So height and width.
That's just saying, here's my container
and it is like this big, right?
Then outside of your width and height,
and right now we're talking about
content box versus border box, so
I'll address border box in just a second.
But if you don't tell CSS to do anything
differently it assumes what you want is
content box, which is this model that
I'm showing you right here, okay.
So, you have height and width and
then on top of the height and width,
so say I have 100 pixels and
100 pixels and that's my square, right.
Then I say I have ten more pixels of
padding on every side, it will go outside
of that and it'll be, you have your 100
and now you have 120 by 120, right,
cuz you have ten pixels on either side
>> Brian Holt: So
that's the padding, that padding
is what's immediately around it.
And then outside of your padding
is where your border goes, okay.
So say like I have like border
three pixel solid black, okay.
So then I have like a border left,
a border top, a border right and
a border bottom of three pixels.
So now I have 126 by 126 pixels right.
If it seems weird it is, okay?
And then outside of the border
then you can tell like
I want you to be this far away
from anything else right.
So, I want you to be ten pixels away
from like my nearest container.
So you say I want 10 pixels on every side.
So then it pushes all the content
away from a ten pixels on any side.
That kind of make sense?
Okay.
The model that I just described to
you is known as content box and
it's a huge pain in the ass,
giant pain in the ass.
Recently they came up with something
called border box that makes a little bit
more sense.
And the biggest difference is,
if I say my content is
a 100 pixels wide and 100 pixels tall,
that includes both border and padding.
So using this,
in fact I'll go to my mouse.
So using this particular,
if we say make this border box,
width is now up here and
height is now down here and it includes.
So if I say,
I have a 100 pixels by a 100 pixels,
and I have ten pixels of padding,
the ten pixels in padding go inside of it.
And now actually your content only
has 80 pixels to fit in, right?
As opposed to going on the outside.
And you have a 100 pixels
to fit your content in, but
your box is actually 120 pixels wide.
Why is this easier?
Because if you're trying to do relative
widths, because you can do like,
I want you to take up 80% of your width.
Having the padding outside
of that 80% made it just
a giant pain in the ass right.
You had to like, if I wanted to make my,
like I had two containers one was 80% and
one was 20%, I had to account for
padding and border on top of that.
So, I had to be 78.3% wide
plus my padding, right.
It just made it like
the math just horrendous.
So, you can say things like I want you
to measure in terms of border box.
And then you just say 80%,
20% it just fits.
That's the big difference.
It's extremely useful.
I recommend just putting
everything in a border box.
Particularly, if you wanna do responsive.
This bit is huge if you are trying to do
responsive web design.
>> Speaker 3: I think you mentioned
document flow earlier.
Can you just explain that?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
We're gonna talk about
that when we go to flows.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so it's coming up
super soon.
>> Brian Holt: Cool any questions about
border box, content box,
widths, heights, borders?
This is kinda like,
it's like clear as mud, probably, right.
It's kind of convoluted to
speak on a theoretical level.
It kind of just makes sense
as you keep going with it.
And if you mix up padding and
margin, don't worry.
Everyone does.
It's cool.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
further questions?
>> Speaker 4: I have a question about
bordering.
So when you put the CSS
probably in values,
does it matter the order
that you place them?
Say, you put background on top or,
and while you keep on adding it,
it gets pushed down to the bottom.
Is there a specific order that you have to
maintain while?
>> Brian Holt: No.
>> Speaker 4: The rendering doesn't make
a difference?
>> Brian Holt: Makes no difference.
The only difference is I repeat the value,
right?
If I say padding ten pixels, and then I
say padding 30 pixels right after it.
The 30 pixel one will be honored
because it's the last one in there.
Other than that, like, if I wanna have
like font color and font weight in there,
it makes no difference if I put color
first or if I put color second.